Nogs
There are three facts one needs to know about nogs:
They are either cooperative or competent. The more the possess one quality, the more the lack in the other.
Nogs work harder when you slap them.
Nogs make excellent sandwiches. (That is to say, they prepare fine sandwiches. No one would eat a nog. In fact, nogs have no known natural enemies)
[edit]Nog Hill
In the southeast corner of Cuvauw, in the midst of smelters and slaughterhouses, stands Nog Hill. A natural ridge, supplemented with mounds of trash, has become a combination borrowing den and apartment-complex for the Nogs of Cuvauw. Nogs are short, humanoid species of varied shapes and proportions. Most have a tan or light brown complexion, and four of limbs of varying length. Hair is rare, and facial features tend be extreme - very bulbous, or pointed and fine. Height ranges from 2 to 4 feet, and weight varies from rail-thin to barrel-gutted. The community is loosely ruled by "King" Fround. The nogs themselves are nearly slaves to the human population. Many indentured servants and actual slaves work in the noble villas, while others man poor quality fields outside the city walls. A few lucky nogs are "free" and work as labourers and petty assistants in the area. The free nogs, having the most money of the bunch, build ramshackle huts on Nog Hill, only to be overtaken but the next lucky nog with an influx of coin or building material. This has lead construction on Nog Hill to tower higher and higher, with frequent accidents due to the complete lack on engineering skill.

[edit]A few brief notes on Nog Sexual Dimorphism
[being cribbed Dr. Mupheaus Thoad, with tangental ramblings expurgated]

While most male nogs are 30-36" in height, females tend to smaller size, closer to 24". They typically possess softer features than males, with rounded noses, ears, and chins, as well as wider hips to aid in the spouting of infant nogs. Hair, on the head or face, is exceedingly rare, even to a lesser extent than in males. It is thus easy for those not readily familiar with nogs to be unable to differentiate between the sexes. When unclothed, female nogs are seen to have pairs teats for nursing, with some possessing two, four, or even six pair. Both sexes gave a brown or tan skin in the regions of the Rhiat, but it is common for the skin of females to taken on a reddish glow when emotionally charge, an effect not unlike that of human blushing.
