1.0 Character roles, not player roles.

The captain is responsible for having final say over travel or group actions.
They are the tie breaker for decisions.

The cartographer draws the map/progress on the player hexmap. They build on
top of the existing map.

The navigator is the PC responsible for guiding the group. We use their roll
bonus for navigation and they steer the outcomes of the results of successful
and failed navigation checks.

The storyteller is the PC (or PCs) who tell stories of the expedition in
#talesfromtheswamp in discord or at least make minutes. (worth 2XP) Everyone
is welcome to share a story in the #talesfromtheswamp discord for 1XP, and
since the storyteller guarantees at least one story, it's worth double as it
factors in the 1XP for writing a tale!

er Swamp Post-Mortem 2

6/26/2018

Comments



Alright so here's the post I'm sure you're all interested in.  Here's my
breakdown of the DMing side of things for Fever Swamp.â€‹ 



I got started pretty quickly-- I didn't flesh out a lot of the rules or
procedures. I knew I was going with an iterative game approach to my West
Marches and made that understood up front. We did a first session trial run
early on using pretty much just the Fever Swamp rules as written and DCC
rules. 



Like all my games, I used a constitutional approach to rules precedents: we
agree to play as written and in as good faith as possible to the game.
Naturally this game creates loopholes and niche cases that require
adjudication, but the GM does not have final say-- the group must agree the GM
has final say and agree that the ruling seems appropriate. From then on,
future cases of that niche will be ruled in the same manner as a precedent has
been set. I avoided writing these down-- if we don't remember a precedent, was
it ever really a precedent? How important was that rule? It's important to let
your game evolve.



It took a while before we were running sessions like machines. I'm here to
tell you that if you want to run a west marches game like a machine, you're
not gonna do it from prep. You're gonna do it from experience and that's ok!
Just play! Players don't mind-- and if they do? Fuck 'em. They're snobs.
They're probably not fun to play with anyways.



As I was saying, it took a while before I could get sessions starting like
this:

 Picture

What you're looking at here is an organized table of every PC in Clink. At the
start of sessions, players would grab whatever available ships were back in
town and put their PCs in them and then we'd get to play. Sure if you wanted
some new 0-level fodder to accompany your new level 1 PC in order to eat
crocodile bites or get their throats slit or become zombie plant
monstrosities, we'd do that, but then we'd get to play!



I'd copy over everyone in the staging area to the Player's Map as the main
screen in roll20. I had a boat icon representing the party and then I'd begin
to ask for roles for today's session. Roles were XP-worthy responsibilities
players would volunteer for to help with play. These are character roles, not
player roles.

The captain is responsible for having final say over travel or group actions.
They are the tie breaker for decisions.

The cartographer draws the map/progress on the player hexmap. They build on
top of the existing map.

The navigator is the PC responsible for guiding the group. We use their roll
bonus for navigation and they steer the outcomes of the results of successful
and failed navigation checks.

The storyteller is the PC (or PCs) who tell stories of the expedition in
#talesfromtheswamp in discord or at least make minutes. (worth 2XP) Everyone
is welcome to share a story in the #talesfromtheswamp discord for 1XP, and
since the storyteller guarantees at least one story, it's worth double as it
factors in the 1XP for writing a tale!



2.0 A Session of the Swamp

The party decides which hex to go to. You can only go as far in one roll as
there is a line of hexes that are charted. Based on how far you want to go,
the navigation DC rises. It's 5 per explored hex and an uncharted Hex is 10.
You can't bypass an uncharted Hex. In other words, we can fast travel through
charted hexes to get to the unexplored ones since you can't skip past
unexplored hexes. 


Once a hex was designated I would roll the navigation privately using the
player's navigation score. I'd announce a success or fail condition to the
roll and I'd move the boat a certain amount of spaces to show a vague amount
of success. Dungeon Crawl Classics lets players burn their "luck" stat to
improve rolls so now navigators have a choice: do I burn my luck now to ensure
we make it ok? But what if I get a disease or we're in combat? 


A success or failure condition to the roll isn't a game ender. What happens is
that I whisper the navigator a failure result from a navigation outcome table: 


