Codifying Magic Use in Uod


* Universal/Cantrap
* General Tutelary
* By School (wonder and wickedness, wraith)



Forms:

* Alchemy - achieving ultimate wisdom as well as immortality,<br> involving the improvement of the alchemist as well as the making or<br> conversion substances possessing omnessance qualities.<br> <br> * Astrology - while including divinatory practices, it is also the<br> method of achieving change through attunement and manipulation of<br> astral/etheric forces. Astrology as a form of<br> divination is a perception of changes (often made by other<br> astrologers) in these forces.<br> <br> * Conjuration - the magical art of evoking or calling forth spirits,<br> demons, or other supernatural agent to bring spiritual inspiration, do<br> the bidding of the magician or provide information.<br> <br> * Consecration - the enchantment, dedication, or attunement of<br> physical objects or places.<br> <br> * Herbalism - traditional medicinal practice based on the use of<br> plant, plant extracts, and other organic substances, and their use as<br> sources of omnessance. Also includes the use of tonics, humours, and<br> organ theory.<br> <br>

* Mysticism - this style is concerned with the flow of omnessence<br> through the natural world and attunement with it, and focusing the<br> mind and body in harmony with these patterns.<br> <br> * Necromancy - a style encompassing elements of evocation and<br> divination, necromancy focuses on knowledge and conversation with the<br> spirits of the dead, effect garnered through ancestor worship, and<br> both the material and immaterial calling forth of the dead.<br> <br> * Sorcery - General magickal study primarily through incantations or<br> dweomers. Comprised of five theoretical divisions, or Precepts: Bliss<br> (Atâm Ushre), Essence (Melani Ushre),<br> Knowledge (Sheira Ushre), Milieu (Osh Ushre), and Fury (Tzhakos Ushre).<br> <br> * Shamanism - communication with, and the evocation and invocation of<br> the spirit world.<br> <br> * Theurgy - Hermetic form of magick guided by meditation, self<br> discipline, and the invocation of the empyreal essense of one's self.<br> At the highest form, the Theurgist maintains contact with a physical<br> manifestation of the eidolon and moves toward henosis.<br> <br> * Witchcraft - may be deprecated.  To be detailed later, but often<br> involves dedication to the malign or uncontrolled forces of nature for<br> personal gain.<br> <br> These styles are not explicit taxonomic categories; shamanism involves<br> some conjuration, sorcery involves some consecration, etc.  Magical<br> forms, i.e. divination, evocation, apotropasim, warding, can be found<br> in most of the styles to some degree.<br> <br> Culturally, use these of styles falls along these lines:<br> <br> Maetah: Sorcery, Consecration<br> Chlendi: Astrology, Conjuration, Shamanism<br> Mindat: Alchemy, Necromancy, Theurgy, Mysticism<br> Heteri: Herbalism, Witchcraft, Shamanism</div></html>
