# Cuvauw
Cuvauw is a small city that sits at the edge of the hills south of Argaevaligne, where the head of the Eastward waters leaves the mountains. A few small fishing villages and towns line the river downstream to Minkarraph. High in the mountains, yet protected from the brutal North Sea storms, Cuvauw was a favoured summering spot for the noble and wealthy at the height of the Eschlatli Empire. The town was originally built to support a mining colony, whose endeavors still produce great wealth in ores and gems for the region. With the Goblin invasion to the south Cuvauw has become the largest free community in Balancont, and consequently harbors many noble families of the region, and is building a sizable military presence to defend them.

Cuvauw is ruled by Comte Mlash Revuud, cousin of the 'King' of Nipend, and is widely thought to be stern but just. He is advised by the sage Ocurod, and his uncle, a priest of Thedine. Ocurod is known as acolyte of Ri-Ephond (Lord of the Earth), the traditional patron deity of Cuvauw. In recent years, rumour has is that the Comte is merely following the orders of his brother Duke Naffan, a former ruler of Balancont now in exile from the Goblin Invasion.

Cuvauw straddles the streams and falls that join just outside the city walls and run west through the midst of the city. Docks, market squares, and small canals line the waterway, as well as a central bridge that leads north to the palace, militia barracks, and fortified mine entrances. Two great towers from the smelting houses tower over the southern side and the sight of their plumes of smoke can be seen from miles away. Butchering, timbering, and other industries reside in the Southern Ward as well and much of the lower class housing.

### Other Notes

* Cuvauw is the nearest city to Argaevaligne, but the Church is not a major player in the city. The Comte's uncle is a priest, but not his closest advisor. The idea of noble (and wealthy) families retaking their rightful lands from the Goblin Queen falls in line with the Church's ethics.
* The Jeweler's Guild has always wanted a piece of the action in Cuvauw. They control the luxury goods trade in the major coastal cities and along the Minkush River. In Cuvauw they have to go through a few middlemen, seriously cutting into the potential profit. They are heavily opposed by the Commerce Guild.
* All the noble titles are remnants of when the Eschlatli Empire unified most of the Rhiat, and are stilled passed on hereditarily. Dukes, Barons, Viscounts etc hold title and land, but there is no king or feudal structure over them. They all lord over small city-state (or less!), but fight for status with $$$.
* Back in the days of the Empire, Cuvauw was the Aspen or Cape Cod of the region, where all the families would go to marry their children off to other noble families. Many still do this, usually in an attempt to consolidate their power. In the case of the Comte, his only son is currently tucked away in the local asylum.
